what is java script
 JavaScript is used to create client-side dynamic pages.

JavaScript is an object-based scripting language which is lightweight and cross-platform.

JavaScript is not a compiled language, but it is a translated language. The JavaScript Translator (embedded in the browser) is responsible for translating the JavaScript code for the web browser.


1)what is ajax
AJAX stands for Asynchronous JavaScript And XML. In a nutshell, it is the use of the XMLHttpRequest object to communicate with servers. It can send and receive information in various formats, including JSON, XML, HTML, and text files. AJAX’s most appealing characteristic is its "asynchronous" nature, which means it can communicate with the server, exchange data, and update the page without having to refresh the page.

what is asynchronous javacsript
asychronous javacsript is a feature of javacsript which allows long time taking operation to run in bakcround without blocking the other operations
this taks are handled to Os and once they are completed the cprresponding callbaacks of those taks are pushed inside the callback queue so once all the synchrnous code complete the eventloop can push this calbacks inside the callstack 


2)what are promises in java script
the promise object represents eventual success or failure of  A ASYNCHRONOUS OPERATION AND its resulting value, we can create  a promise by using the promise constructor which accepts a single callback function with arguments resolve and reject, we can do the operations and call the resolve function if everything goes well and we can call the reject if the operations dont go well 
 when comes to consuming the promise we have to register the function with the then and catch methods,then method will executes when  a promise is fullfilled or rejected
the then takes two function parameters, firts one is executed if the promise is fullfiled and the result is recieved, second function will be excuted when the promise get rejected and error is received(but the better way is to use the catch method
the catch method invokes when the promise is rejected or any error occured ,It is used as an Error Handler whenever at any step there is a chance of getting an error. 
ref :https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/javascript-promises/

3)what are closures in java script
A closure is the combination of a function bundled together (enclosed) with references to its surrounding state (the lexical environment). In other words, a closure gives you access to an outer function's scope from an inner function. In JavaScript, closures are created every time a function is created, at function creation time.
or 
closure is a capability of a function to rmemeber and access to its lexical scope even if it is executed outside of the scope ,it can acces and modify the variables outsde of the scop even after outer function execution is finished. this concept  enables powerfull programming techniques like private variables and mamaging state in function programming
 or
cloure is a capability of a javacsript function where a child function can access and manipulate the varaibles of its outer scope functions(parent functions) even they are executed outside of parent function and executed after completion of parent function 

4)what are const and variables 
ref :https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-var-let-and-const-keywords-in-javascript/

5)what are template literals in java script
Template literals are literals delimited with backtick (`) characters, allowing for multi-line strings, for string interpolation with embedded expressions, and for special constructs called tagged templates.
Template literals are sometimes informally called template strings, because they are used most commonly for string interpolation (to create strings by doing substitution of placeholders). However, a tagged template literal may not result in a string; it can be used with a custom tag function to perform whatever operations you want on the different parts of the template literal

6)generators 
we can create generator bu prefixing the function name with the *
these function can be stopped and can be resumed form wherever the are stopped 
when we call a generator it will return a generaotr by call calling the next method of the returned generator the function will be executed till the next yield key word and whatever the value next to to yeild keyword will be returned 
and when we again call the next methoid with some arguments those arguments will be plced into the variable which was assigned wth yiedl keyword

A generator-function is defined like a normal function, but whenever it needs to generate a value, it does so with the yield keyword rather than return. The yield statement suspends function’s execution and sends a value back to caller, but retains enough state to enable function to resume where it is left off. When resumed, the function continues execution immediately after the last yield run. 
ref :https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/javascript-generator/

7)what is json
json stands for java script object notation is a text based format or data representation format to represent the  structured data based on  java script objects syntax , it is commonly used for transmitting the data in web applications(for sending data from client to server and vicer versa)
types supported by json 
Number,String,Array,Object,Null,Boolean
the json files should have .json extension
the data should be in the form of key and value pairs
both key and values should be enclosed with double quotes
value should be of above types
data is seperated by commas
curly braces holds objects where as square brackets holds the array
ref:youtube :https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OhMbf2v_jI

8) what is fetch api
the fetch api allows to request any resource asynchronously
the fetch api returns a promise thta resolves into responce object , to get the actual response we have to call the methods like .json() and .text() which will resolves in the actual data
we can use status and status Text properties  to get the status and status and status text of the responce
use the catch method to handle  a failure request
The Promise returned from fetch() won't reject on HTTP error status even if the response is an HTTP 404 or 500. Instead, it will resolve normally (with ok status set to false), and it will only reject on network failure or if anything prevented the request from completing.
ref:https://www.javascripttutorial.net/javascript-fetch-api/#:~:text=The%20Fetch%20API%20is%20a,is%20much%20simpler%20and%20cleaner.
ref2:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API

9)what are array helpers
Array Helper Methods in ES6 (JavaScript) are very useful for working with data stored in arrays. Most of the time working as a web developer work with data stored in arrays it may be a simple array of numbers or it may be a complex array of objects where each object is containing a lot of attributes. Array Helper Methods helps lot in working with arrays. Array Helper Methods can be used for complex tasks with array very easily and can also easily work with complex arrays of objects.
Array helpers can be used to:

loop through an array of elements (which can be done using traditional for loop),
perform functions over each element,
Search for an element in an array,
filter elements,
reduce elements into a single value and many more…
ref:https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/array-helper-methods-in-es6/
ref:https://www.divami.com/blog/array-helper-methods-efficient-alternative-loop/#:~:text=This%20array%20helper%20method%20filters,which%20the%20condition%20returns%20true.

10)what are modules in java script
modules are nothing but java script files which contains clases ,functions,variables,object literals
module are piece of reusbale codes contain related functionalities variables constants etc
by using this modules developers can breaksown thier code into files containig realated code which will help in organising the code , reusability and reducing naming collisons  
the es6 has introduced import and export by which we can impport and export files ,functions,variables easily 
to import the file we need to export it first
to recognise module files in js  we have to keep one package.json file which will have {"type":"modules"} 

11) what are classe in java script
In JavaScript, classes are the special type of functions. We can define the class just like function declarations and function expressions.
The JavaScript class contains various class members within a body including methods or constructor. The class is executed in strict mode. So, the code containing the silent error or mistake throws an error.
Classes are a template for creating objects. They encapsulate data with code to work on that data
The class syntax contains two components:

Class declarations
Class expressions

12) asyn await in node js
Async functions can contain zero or more await expressions. Await expressions make promise-returning functions behave as though they're synchronous by suspending execution until the returned promise is fulfilled or rejected. The resolved value of the promise is treated as the return value of the await expression. Use of async and await enables the use of ordinary try / catch blocks around asynchronous code.
ref:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function
